README.md, before:

# Datamining @ ITC

### [GitHub link](https://github.com/ArnoBen/datamining_itc)

Datamining and webscraping project where we will perform webscraping on Discogs and use Spotify's API to build a music themed database.

We are using [this Discogs page](https://www.discogs.com/search/?sort=have%2Cdesc&ev=em_rs&type=master)
which provides a table of albums-artists ranked by most popular of all time (called "Most Collected").

For now we are only scraping the pages. Afterwards, we will request the page for each album and scrap it as well.

We also registered to Spotify for Developers which provides a powerful API.

## Versions

- Python (3.9.12)
- BeautifulSoup4 (4.11.1)
- spotipy (2.20.0)
- Flask (2.1.2) ~ out of scope but fun embedding
- grequests (0.6.0)
- python-dotenv (0.20.0)

## How to use

- Using virtualenv:
 
0. virtualenv & activate
1. install the requirements.txt
2. `python3 spotify_server.py` # browser UI
3. `python3 discogs.py [count]` # discogs scraping

### Scraping Discogs

```
usage: discogs.py [-h] [-v] [-c COUNT] [-y YEAR] [-t TYPE]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose         outputs more information while scraping
  -c COUNT, --count COUNT
                        amount of pages to scrape. Default is 3.
  -y YEAR, --year YEAR  year of album release to filter
  -t TYPE, --type TYPE  'albums' or 'artists'
```

This will display a list of Artist - Album scraped from the Discogs webpage.

### Spotify queries

:warning: This will NOT work without the environment variables `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` required to 
request Spotify's API. The .env file will be provided in the .zip submission.

- Run `python spotify_server.py` 
- Go to http://127.0.0.1:5000/
- Enter a Spotify search

We do not have defined a definite use for Spotify's API but it's good to have it available.

Commit message:

[ADD] arg to save information in database

README.md, after:

# Datamining @ ITC

### [GitHub link](https://github.com/ArnoBen/datamining_itc)

Datamining and webscraping project where we will perform webscraping on Discogs and use Spotify's API to build a music themed database.

We are using [this Discogs page](https://www.discogs.com/search/?sort=have%2Cdesc&ev=em_rs&type=master)
which provides a table of albums-artists ranked by most popular of all time (called "Most Collected").

For now we are only scraping the pages. Afterwards, we will request the page for each album and scrap it as well.

We also registered to Spotify for Developers which provides a powerful API.

## Versions

- Python (3.9.12)
- BeautifulSoup4 (4.11.1)
- spotipy (2.20.0)
- Flask (2.1.2) ~ out of scope but fun embedding
- grequests (0.6.0)
- python-dotenv (0.20.0)

## How to use

- Using virtualenv:
 
0. virtualenv & activate
1. install the requirements.txt
2. `python3 spotify_server.py` # browser UI
3. `python3 discogs.py [count]` # discogs scraping

### Scraping Discogs

```
usage: discogs.py [-h] [-v] [-s] [-c COUNT] [-y YEAR] [-t TYPE]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose         outputs more information while scraping
  -s, --save            save the scraped information in a database
  -c COUNT, --count COUNT
                        amount of pages to scrape (default: 3)
  -y YEAR, --year YEAR  year of album release to filter
  -t TYPE, --type TYPE  'albums' or 'artists' (default: 'albums')
```

This will display a list of Artist - Album scraped from the Discogs webpage.

### Spotify queries

:warning: This will NOT work without the environment variables `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` required to 
request Spotify's API. The .env file will be provided in the .zip submission.

- Run `python spotify_server.py` 
- Go to http://127.0.0.1:5000/
- Enter a Spotify search

We do not have defined a definite use for Spotify's API but it's good to have it available.
